July 8, 1:00 PM, six days before the demo,
Bob is ecstatic.
He has been able to get the sample
project working on his laptop.
Finally, he has some time to spare
and decides to check the company's
internal software repository.
He had got the URL from Dave
and remembers him saying that
it is accessible from the office network.
He opens his web browser
and types in the URL,
http://caleston-repos.
However, he runs into an unexpected error.
He is not sure why he got this error
and tries to reach out to Dave
on the communicator.
"Ah, Dave is away on his vacation,"
Bob thinks to himself!"
This appears to be an issue with the network.
I better open up a ticket
with the network team."
He creates a ticket in ServiceNow.
After a couple of hours,
he gets a message on Skype from Jacqui.
"Hey, Bob. My name is Jacqui
and I am from the network team.
I got your ticket and was wondering if you
have some time to troubleshoot," says Jacqui.
"Hey, Jacqui, thank you very much.
Yes, indeed. I do have some time now."
"Great, thanks.
Can you come find me at the IT support floor?
Desk 8A-052.
I think it's better to do this in person,"
says Jacqui.
"Sure, see you soon."
Bob meets Jacqui at her desk and
gives an overview of the problem.
"So, I'm trying to connect to the repo server
from the browser
and I'm getting this error.
I'm not sure why it's not working.
It sure was working on Dave's laptop," says Bob.
Jacqui inspects the error and asks,
"Are you sure that's the correct URL?
Just by looking at the error,
I can tell that it's not a valid DNS name.
Are you sure that Dave was not using
a file-based name resolution for this site?"
Bob was not sure what that meant.
"That's all right. Let's try to
get to the bottom of this.
Let me try this on my laptop."
She tries to open the same URL
and gets the same error.
"See, the issue is with the URL.
I don't think that's a valid name.
If I remember correctly, the address should be
http://caleston-repos-01."
She tries it and gets a different error now.
"That seems to be the correct URL,
but it's still not working.
The error with respect to DNS is gone now,
but it's still not working," says Jacqui.
"If you don't mind, can you explain how to
go about troubleshooting these issues?"
asks Bob,
"I am quite new to Linux and networking.
I would appreciate any tips you can give me.
I have this client demonstration next week
and want to make sure it goes
well without any hiccups."
Jacqui smiles, "Sure thing.
Do you have a few minutes to spare?
If you have some time now, I can walk
you through some of the networking basics,
and then we can troubleshoot
this problem from the ground up.
Does that sound good to you?"
"Sounds perfect. Thank you very much,"
Bob exclaims.
"Let's start from the beginning," says Jacqui.
"So, you were trying to access the site,
http://caleston-repos.
While doing this, you got an error
'DNS PROBE FINISHED NX DOMAIN.'
Well, this means that the client,
which in this case is your laptop,
is not able to locate the IP address
of caleston-repos.
To understand this a bit better,
let me explain a bit about DNS."